Account terms and conditions

1. Scope
These account terms and conditions are applicable for all the banking services of
Arab Banking Corporation (B.S.C.) acting through its retail branch (“ila”, “we”, “us”),
which you (“you”) can use via the mobile application named “ila” (the “ila App”). These
terms and conditions apply in addition to our other terms and conditions and our
privacy policy which are incorporated herein by reference and apply to the services
offered by ila.
2. Object of service
The object of service is the management of your accounts and the debit cards issued
to you. You can operate and manage your accounts and the debit cards using the ila
App.
ila accounts, including without limitation, all currency accounts, Hassala accounts,
and term deposits are managed as credit accounts. You will have to immediately
settle any overdraft created due to delayed receipt of debit authorisations or
because of a higher amount due to foreign exchange rate variations with applicable
fees and interest which ila may recover from any of your ila accounts.
3. Account opening
You can open an account with us on the condition you are at least 18 years old and
you have not yet opened an account with ila. If you had closed your relationship with
ila and wish to start a new relationship, please contact our Customer Contact Center
on +973 17 123 456.
You can open accounts in each of the permitted foreign currencies using the ila App.
We may, at our sole discretion, discontinue offering an account in any foreign
currency. In such event, if you maintain a balance in such account after the notice
period, we will close the account and transfer the balance to your local currency
account at the prevailing exchange rate.
All ila services may not be available on all accounts.
4. Account balance
You can make payments and transfers only up to the credit balance available in your
accounts. In some cases, the transaction amount will also include fees and charges
and value added tax (VAT) payable on such transaction. Transactions initiated by
you that exceed the credit balance available in the account will be rejected. Charges
for each type of transactions are in the “Schedule of fees and charges”.
2
5. Account statements
We shall at the end of each month produce a statement of your accounts, unless we
have notified you that we may not issue statements for a specific product. The
monthly statements can be downloaded using the ila App.
If you have any objections concerning the correctness or completeness of an
account statement, let us know within 30 days from the date of such statement.
We will investigate and seek to resolve the matter to your satisfaction.
6. Inactivity of the account
If your account is without a transaction initiated by you for a period determined by
ila or the Central Bank of Bahrain from time-to-time, we will mark your accounts and
our relationship as dormant. You will not be able to use your account for any
payments or transfers nor use your debit card if your account/relationship is marked
dormant. We will also recover applicable fees as per the “Schedule of fees and
charges”. You will not be able to use your account for any payments or transfers nor
use your debit card if your account/relationship is marked dormant. Although we
may allow electronic and manual credits to your account, it will not change the
status of your account from dormant. In order to reactivate your relationship with
ila, you must meet our know you client (“KYC”) requirements. You may be required
to provide additional and/or new identification and other KYC related documents to
reactivate your relationship and gain access to your account.
Even if your account is marked dormant, we will continue to allow electronic and
manual transfers into your account. However, if your account is dormant and its
balance becomes zero, your account will be closed within six months from the date
of dormancy. We will send you a notification before closing the account by mail, email or other communication channel.
7. Unauthorised overdrafts
You must not use the ila App to create an unauthorised overdraft in your account.
We are entitled to refuse to accept any instruction that would do so. In our absolute
discretion we may permit your account to be overdrawn including but not limited to
delayed posting of debits, fees, and charges. If your account is overdrawn, we shall
recover interest on the overdrawn amount. Unless a separate overdraft contract has
been concluded with us, the interest rate and fees applicable to the overdrawn
amount as stated in the “Schedule of fees and services” will apply. Overdraft interest
charged against your account is debt to us and is payable immediately on demand.
8. Interest
If we offer to pay interest on an account, it will be paid to your account at the end
of the period and at a rate determined by us from time to time. We reserve the right 
3
to change the period and or the interest rate and to set a minimum account balance
below which no interest will be paid. We also reserve the right to not pay any
accrued interest upon closure of an account.
From time to time, we may offer a promotional rate of interest which may exceed
the market practice. We reserve the right to amend the applicable interest rate on
credit balances from time to time. Unless we say otherwise, the revised interest
rates will apply with effect from the date mentioned in the notice published on our
website.
9. Blocking of your account and debit card
If we have a reasonable suspicion that an unauthorised use of your account or debit
card has occurred, we will block or limit access to the account or the debit card. We
may inform you of such change via e-mail or SMS. We shall remove the block or the
limitation if the reasons for blocking no longer exist.
10. Managing your debit card
You can freeze and unfreeze your debit card using the ila App. You can also report
your debit card as lost or stolen using the ila App, which will result in permanent
deactivation of your card. We will send you a new debit card at your request. You
can also call the ila Customer Contact Centre on +973 17 123 456 and, upon
successful authentication, request one of our employees to block your debit card.
Card replacement fees listed in the “Schedule of fees and charges” will be recovered
from your account.
11. Linking your debit card to your ila account
Your debit card is issued on the local currency account by default. Your debit card
can be linked only to an account as permitted by us. You can choose to link your
debit card to a number of foreign currency accounts as permitted by us from time to
time. You can also unlink a foreign currency account from your debit card and link a
new foreign currency account to the debit card within the limits set by us.
12. Using your debit card
We will debit your account for any purchases, cash withdrawals or transfers made
through and as a result of the usage of your card along with associated fees and
charges. By accepting these terms and conditions, you agree that you are always
fully liable for all transactions executed by your card whether such transactions
were processed with your knowledge and or authorisation or not.
If you have any objections concerning the correctness or completeness of an
account statement, let us know within 30 days from the date of such statement.
We will investigate and seek to resolve the matter to your satisfaction. Otherwise, 
4
you accept our record for these transactions as being final and binding for all
purposes and waive any right to contest or dispute the correctness of such records.
If your account is overdrawn by the use of your card, you undertake to settle, the
overdrawn balance including any penalty and or interest immediately upon our
request. You also authorise us (without us being bound to do so) to cover any
overdrawn balance by debiting any of your accounts with us.
13. Transactions using debit card on a linked account
If your debit card is linked to a foreign currency account and if you use your debit
card for a transaction in that account currency, you must have sufficient balance in
that account to cover the transaction. In case the balance in the linked account is
insufficient to cover the transaction using the debit card, such transaction will be
declined even if you maintain sufficient balance in another account denominated in
a different currency. If your debit card is not linked to a foreign currency account,
debit card transaction in that currency will be debited to your local currency account
provided it has a sufficient balance to cover the transaction.
Credit balances maintained in accounts not linked to the debit card will not be used
to cover debit card transactions.
14. Automatic Billing Updater
When your ila debit card or credit card is replaced with a new one or renewed, we
urge you to contact service providers or merchants with whom you have saved
billing information or subscriptions, to re-register the standing instructions or direct
debit with your new ila card information. This will ensure continuity of your service.
Ila will not be liable for any loss or damages incurred by you in connection with your
failure to complete such an update.
Your ila card details may be automatically updated with some service providers or
merchants but we nonetheless urge you to contact them independently and/or
verify that your new card details have been updated to avoid any loss to service.
15. Electronic funds transfer payments
You can initiate a request for electronic funds transfer (“EFT”) from the ila App. We
will execute EFT transactions in Bahraini dinar only, even if you use a foreign
currency account for the purpose of payment.
Before confirming the payments, you have the responsibility to ensure that the
recipient’s International Bank Account Number (“IBAN”) or the mobile number linked
to the bank account for transfers within Bahrain and other details of the beneficiary
are correctly provided. We shall not be liable for any loss because of incorrect,
incomplete, or erroneous information provided. 
5
You acknowledge that the credit will be provided solely on the basis of the IBAN or
mobile number, where applicable, of the beneficiary, and the beneficiary’s name or
other particulars may not be relied upon.
By authorising the transaction, you accept all responsibility and authorise us to
debit your account with the charges and value added tax (VAT) applicable on such
transactions.
Where the limits for external transfers are set by a third party, we will implement
such limits and will not be held responsible for failure of any of your transactions
which exceed the applicable limits.
You understand that we will not be liable for any loss or damage that may arise as
a result of or in connection with delay in transmission or non-delivery of an EFT or
any mistake, omission, or error in transmission or delivery thereof or in deciphering
the message for any cause whatsoever or the misinterpretation or the action of the
destination bank or any act beyond our reasonable control.
16. Funds transfers
You can initiate a funds transfer request from the ila App. You must ensure that
the information, particularly the unique bank account reference such as the
International Bank Account Number (“IBAN”) or account number and Bank Identifier
Code (“BIC”) and the currency, provided are complete and correct.
You hereby expressly consent, by way of your authorisation of the funds transfer
request, to the retrieval, processing, transmission, and storing of your personal data
which are necessary for the execution of the transfer request.
We may not be able to process transactions involving foreign currency if these are
received by us after business hours or if it is not a banking business day in Bahrain.
We will process such requests the following banking business day. In such cases,
the exchange rate applicable at the time of processing may be different from the
rate indicated previously.
Because funds transfer requests are initiated by you using the ila App, we will not
be able to accept a request for amendment of the request. You may request for
cancelling a request for transfer or payment before its execution. We will consider
such requests only on a best efforts basis.
International transfers may involve additional fees (correspondent bank charges)
which may not be known and recovered at the time of remittance. In such cases, we
will recover such charges by debit to any of your accounts with us, even if it results
in an overdraft in such account, as and when we receive advice of the charge. Such
overdrafts, if any, will carry fees and interest applicable to unauthorized overdraft
as mentioned in the schedule of charges.
6
17. QR payments
If you use our merchant payment services via scanning a QR Code or other
technology (including but not limited to contactless payments, Apple Pay or
BenefitPay and whether confirmed using the card PIN or facial recognition
technology or otherwise), such payments will be charged to your ila account. Some
of the merchant promotional offers, cash back, or any other incentives may be
managed and administered by a third party.
18. Using a third party provider (“TPP”)
These terms will apply if you use a third party provider (a “TPP”). On the basis of
your consent, we will grant the TPP access to your account and related information
and you will be able to make the same payments through the TPP that would be
able to make if you were dealing with us using our ila App. Account and related
information will include details about who you are making payments to and
receiving payments from. This may contain some personal information, e.g. the
name and details of the beneficiary. You warrant that the provision of any such data
to ila and ila’s provision of such data to any TPP for the purposes outlined in these
terms complies with any applicable privacy laws.
Checking that the TPP is authorised and licensed by the Central Bank of Bahrain is
your responsibility. If you give your security details to an unauthorised third party,
ila will consider that you are authorising us to give access to information about your
accounts and you will be solely responsible for any payments or other transactions
made as a result.
We may refuse to allow a TPP to access your account if we have enough reason to
believe that the TPP is unauthorised or acting fraudulently. If we are made aware
that an unauthorized third party is using your security details, we will block access
to your accounts. If we block your account, we will inform you if it does not
compromise our reasonable security measures or it is unlawful to do so.
If you think a payment made through a TPP was unauthorised or incorrect you must
call us as soon as you can.
19. Right of lien and set-off
We have the right of lien and set-off on all asset and properties of whatever nature
(whether cash, stocks, shares, bills, precious metals or otherwise whatsoever)
deposited or held by us in your name and shall hold the same as security for payment
of any indebtedness due from you (whether by way of principal, interest, fees,
commission, charges or otherwise whatsoever and whether in such indebtedness
shall be fluctuating balance or otherwise) without prejudice to us and the same shall
not be affected by any other security held by us for such indebtedness.
7
20. Account closing
You may at any time notify ila of your intention to close your ila accounts and
terminate the use of all ila cards by giving notice in writing. The accounts shall be
closed after receipt of full payment of all charges and other liabilities due under and
related to the account.
If your ila account is closed prior to the payment in full of total amounts due, the
entire outstanding balance of amount due shall immediately become due and
payable by you, and ila shall have the right to demand the immediate payment
thereof at its discretion.